# useState: counter

## Background

Normally an interactive application will need to hold state somewhere. In React,
you use special functions called "hooks" to do this. Common built-in hooks
include:

- `React.useState`
- `React.useEffect`
- `React.useContext`
- `React.useRef`
- `React.useReducer`

Each of these is a special function that you can call inside your custom React
component function to store data (like state) or perform actions (or
side-effects). There are a few more built-in hooks that have special use cases,
but the ones above are what you'll be using most of the time.

Each of the hooks each has a unique API. Some return a value (like
`React.useRef` and `React.useContext`), others return a pair of values (like
`React.useState` and `React.useReducer`), and others return nothing at all (like
`React.useEffect`).

Here's an example of a component that uses the `useState` hook and an onChange
event handler to update that state:

```jsx
function NameInput() {
  const [name, setName] = React.useState('')
  const handleChange = event => setName(event.target.value)
  return (
    <>
      <label>
        Name: <input defaultValue={name} onChange={handleChange} />
      </label>
      <div>You Typed: {name}</div>
    </>
  )
}
```

`React.useState` is a function that accepts a single argument. That argument is
the initial state for the NameInput instance of the component. In our case, the
input will start as an empty string.

`React.useState` returns a pair of values. It does this by returning an array
with two elements (and we use destructuring syntax to assign each of those
values to distinct variables). The first of the pair is the state value and the
second is a function we can call to update the state. We can name these
variables whatever we want. Common convention is to choose a name for the state
variable, then prefix `set` in front of that for the updater function.

State can be defined as: data that changes over time. So how does this work over
time? When the input's value is changed, our handleChange function will be
called with the change event object. Then we can use that event to access the
input via `event.target` and we can access the input's value from that so we can
update the `name` state in our component by calling the function to update the
state.

When we call `setName`, that tells React to re-render our component. When it
does this, the entire NameInput function is re-run, so when `React.useState` is
called this time, the value we get back is the value that we called `setName`
with. And it continues like that until NameInput is unmounted (removed from the
application), or the user closes the application.

## Exercise

In this exercise we have a button which has a number in it that starts at 0.
That number increments every time it's clicked. Fill out the `Counter` component
so that it manages the state of how many times the the button is clicked. The
text of the button should be the number of times the button has been clicked.

## Extra Credit

### ðŸ’¯ accept an initialName

Make the counter accept props called `step` and `initialCount` and make the
counter increment by the given step and start at the given count.

## ðŸ¦‰ Elaboration and Feedback

<div>
<span>After the instruction, if you want to remember what you've just learned, then </span>
<a rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank" href="https://ws.kcd.im/?ws=React%20Hooks%20%F0%9F%8E%A3&e=01%3A%20useState%3A%20counter&em=">
  fill out the elaboration and feedback form.
</a>
</div>
